So it's time now to take what we just
showed you in the last video were we
you know took the camera, execute
the little script using the CV Library.
And show you how it printed
out on the screen there.
>> Yep.
>> We're going to take that and
add some features to it to
make it a little bit cooler.
>> Take some cooler pictures.
[CROSSTALK] And go and screenshot.
>> So let's check it out.
>> Yeah.
So what I first want to talk about is for
facial recognition and any other kind of
shape or feature recognitions, you'll
need something called the hard cascades.
It's something that these XML files
are provided in the OpenCV library, but
we'll also provide it on the website for
everyone to use.
So, let's see here.
Again, we'll just go back into
our basic CV application here.
So, we have a regular image right here,
and
I want to let's just try the facial
recognition thing I mentioned earlier.
So, say img2.
Go to image.copy.
This one just create a copy of
that image and put it to image2.
The one I saw a while back
was like a wide outline of
a picture
>> Well do it.
Try it out
>> So
you can find all these
things I'm doing online.
Also, they're in a sample code.
In the documentation that simple CV and
political CV
book provide and we'll just go ahead and
do one more and make a grey scale image.
Simple filter here.
All right.
>> So real quick, just so you know, on
the code right there is he's making three
copies of that image and he's calling
each copy image two or img2, img3, img4.
So now he's going to apply little
filters to each one of those images.
>> And then facial it's
called facial recognition.
>> Almost man.
>> So, let's see.
We'll do faces is equal to
image2.FindHaar.
So, this we'll call the FindHaar
features on this image we have.
>> Which is that outline.
>> Yeah, so then,
when it calls this, you'll need
to provide the file that I'll look at,
so right now,
we have it on the desktop,
so we're going to try.
So we'll load the feature
finder with this XML files,
so home/linaro/Desktop,
it's called haarcascade
frontalface atl.xml Cool.
Now let's make this a little bigger for
it's a little one-liner here.
There we go.
It will find all the faces for us.
Then, I'll make a green box for us.
Green is equal to zero.
These are just RBG values.
So, I'm setting up the color green.
And then, for every face in faces.
Yeah, one, two, three, four.
f.draw(green).
So, this will find every face.
For every face,
it'll draw a green box around it.
>> Yeah, so, let's just walk them
through that little piece real quick.
Right, so, green, he's basically saying
RGB, the three values of RGB equals 0,
for R, which is red, 255,
which is the max point,
for green, and then B, blue, is 0, right?
So he's giving all green, and
then he's saying, for f in faces,
for every face, make it green.
Right, because inside.
>> Yeah.
Draw the green box around it.
>> Draw the green box around it.
So for every face,
draw a green box around it and he already
has that variable green set to 0 255 0.
So, yeah.
>> So the next thing we'll
do is outline the edges.
Call it edges.
So, image two.
Is equal to image, sorry,
image three, my bad.
Image three equal image three.edges.
And then you'll need
to try a parameter of.
How the picture will sort
of render each line, right?
So the lower the number,
the more wide lines it'll draw, and
the thicker the number,
it'll look for more defined lines.
We'll just give it,
say, let's go with 130.
Sounds pretty good.
>> What are the two?
What's the max?
>> You'll have to look at
the augmentation for that.
>> Okay.
>> I think it's 250, though.
>> All right.
>> I believe.
The last one we'll do is
a little gray scale image.
Gray scale image.
Go to img4.grayscale.
Pretty simple?
>> Sounds good.
>> Yep.
Like I said before,
you can simply do this to
any other kind of images.
Whatever the documentation has.
And remember, we need to save them all.
So
img2.save("/home/linaro/Desktop/facial_re-
cognition.png").
Then we have img3.save(" /home/
/Desktop/
>> Randy, you're getting good at this.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Man, tons of practice.
img4.save(/home/linaro/Desktop/ what
is it?
Wait, gray-scale.
>> Gray, yeah.
So just put gray.
>> Gray.png.
Cool.
And then we'll go ahead and save it.
Quit.
Ready, Robert?
>> I'm ready.
Wait, are we going to?
It's just taking a copy of that first one,
right?
>> No,
we're going to take a picture actually.
>> All right, so let's do another.
>> All right, so let's do.
>> How do we know if it's honest?
We don't, right?
>> Yeah.
So run the script and wait a bit,
let the camera boot up and
take a picture of us.
>> So we got an error, actually,
but we did troubleshoot this,
so let's go back into our VM and
see what we messed up.
>> Yeah.
So,
actually let's look at the error message.
It says,
warning could not find Haar cascade file.
>> Yeah, show them with the mouse so
they can see what we're looking here.
>> Right here.
This one.
>> So, apparently actually-
>> It couldn't find it.
>> Randy typed it wrong.
[LAUGH]
>> So,
as you see it says Haar
cascade frontalface atl.
When it should be alt right here.
[CROSSTALK]
>> We went in there and fix that, so
we kind of cut.
But we fixed it.
So now let's actually try running it
again now that we've changed that.
>> Take a picture.
Go ahead.
>> Are you in there?
>> Maybe.
Cool.
All right.
It looks like it took it.
>> Yep.
So we'll take my first image again.
All right, we never changed the name.
So that's us, the very first one.
Yeah, put that up there,
let's keep them all up.
>> Let's put up over here, all right.
>> Yeah,
then the next one was facial recognition.
>> Facial recognition.
Bam.
Look at that.
>> What?
>> Two faces.
So also know that the reason
the hard cascade file is very important
is because this one is a frontal face.
So if me or Robert turn to our sides,
we wouldn't be boxed right now because
it doesn't detect those things.
You can also do other cool neat detection
stuff such as eyes or nose or mouth and
then, yeah, we also did the edges.
I thought this one was pretty cool so
I wanted to include it.
>> Man.
>> Look at that, with all its lines.
>> And that's the one where you
can kind of change that threshold.
>> Yeah, so at a higher number, you'll
see fewer lines, and at a lower number,
you see many more.
>> And actually, it's kind of cool.
If you look at Randy's hair,
kind of on the top right side,
it almost blends in with the background,
so it couldn't detect any edges there.
Pretty cool.
>> Finally, we have our little
grayscale image, as you can see.
So, we're all black and white right now.
Pretty neat, right?
And so those are some simple
features you can add.
And there are a ton more.
You can go ahead and look it up.
>> OpenCV.
SimpleCV.
>> SimpleCV, there you go.
>> Very simple, awesome.
>> Cool.
All right, so now that you've kind of seen
our program or our application and
we've walked you through those steps,
I would suggest maybe rewatching this,
pausing it, getting familiar with
the code, going through those libraries,
everything, the documentation that's
provided to you in the read me files.
>> Go ahead and
check out some other sample code online.
There's been a ton posted.
Apply them to your own application and
mess around with it.
>> Yeah because next, we're actually
going to show you how to send that image
after it's been ran through a script.
>> Yeah.
>> To a host computer, through a network.
All right.
So we'll see you then.